Rules Governing Sanctioned Meets 
1. Age on the first day the meet will govern for the entire meet. 
2. Conduct of the sanctioned event shall conform in every respect to current rules of USA 
Swimming including technical and administrative rules. 
3. All adults participating in or associated with this meet acknowledge that they are subject to the 
provisions of the USA Swimming Minor Athlete Abuse Prevention Policy (“MAAPP”), and that 
they understand that compliance with MAAPP is a condition of participating in the conduct of 
this competition. 
4. Any swimmer entered in the meet must be certified by a USA Swimming member-coach as 
being proficient in performing a racing start or must start each race from within the water 
without the use of the backstroke ledge. When unaccompanied by a member-coach, it is the 
responsibility of the swimmer or the swimmer’s legal guardian to ensure compliance with this 
requirement. 
5. The competition course has been certified in accordance with 104.2.2C(4) as to pool length. A 
copy of such certification is on file with USA Swimming. 
6. The minimum water depth, measured in accordance with Article 103.2.3, is 13 feet, at the start 
end and 4 feet, at the turn end. 
7. Deck changes are prohibited. 
8. The Arizona Swimming Controlled Meet Warm-up and Safety Guidelines will be posted and 
enforced. 
9. No swimmer will be permitted to compete unless the swimmer is a member of USA 
Swimming. On deck registration is not available at any Arizona Swimming meet. 
10. The use of audio or visual recording devices, including a cell phone, is not permitted in 
1 
changing areas, restrooms, locker rooms, behind the starting blocks, or other areas as may be designated by the Meet 
Director/Meet Referee. 
11. All referees, starters, administrative officials, chief judges, and stroke and turn judges serving 
in an official capacity in a sanctioned event must be non-athlete members of USA Swimming or 
members of other FINA member organizations. All meet directors for meets sanctioned by USA 
Swimming must be members of USA Swimming. Except for coaches accompanying athletes 
participating under the provisions of 202.9 or USA Swimming’s “open border” policy, all 
persons acting in any coaching capacity in a sanctioned event must be a coach member of USA 
Swimming. 
12. Officials and Meet Marshals must sign in and present proof of current membership and/or 
training respectively, to the Meet Referee prior to the start of each session of competition. 
13. Coaches must sign in and present proof of current membership at the Clerk of Course prior to 
the start of each session of competition. 
14. Meet Marshals shall wear their identifying attire, as provided by the club. 
15. Swimmers with disabilities are welcome. The swimmer (or swimmers coach) is responsible 
for notifying the Referee, prior to the competition, of any disability of the swimmer and the 
requested accommodation. The swimmer/coach shall provide any assistant(s) or equipment 
(tappers, deck mats, etc.) if required. 
16. Operation of a drone, or any other flying apparatus, is prohibited over the venue (pools, 
athlete/coach areas, spectator areas and open-ceiling locker rooms) any time athletes, coaches, 
officials and/or spectators are present. 
17. The following medical supervision will be available to athletes participating in the meet: